Previous group optimization strategies [CM86] [RC88] [Sel86]
focused on finding an optimal global plan for a small number of
queries. These techniques are useful in a query environment
where a small number of similar queries either enter the system
within a short time interval or are given in advance. A naive
approach for grouping continuous queries would be to apply
these methods directly by reoptimizing all queries whenever a
new query is added. We contend that such an approach is not
acceptable for large dynamic environments because of the
associated performance overhead.
We propose an incremental group optimization strategy for
continuous queries in this paper. Groups are created for existing
queries according to their signatures, which represent similar
structures among the queries. Groups allow the common parts of
two or more queries to be shared. Each individual query in a
query group shares the results from the execution of the group
plan. When a new query is submitted, the group optimizer
considers existing groups as potential optimization choices. The
new query is merged into those existing groups that match its
signatures. Existing queries are not, however, re-grouped in our
approach. While this strategy is likely to result in sub-optimal
groups, it reduces the cost of group optimization significantly.
More importantly it is very scalable in a dynamic environment.
Since continuous queries are frequently added and removed, it is
possible that current groups may become inefficient. “Dynamic
re-grouping” would be helpful to re-group part or all of the
queries either periodically or when the system performance
degrades below some threshold. This is left as future work.